# Alternate Rule: Armor Class

Traditionally, Depths used a system of opposed rolls to represent physical attacks and the attempt to dodge them. For the uninitiated, an opposed roll is one in where someone initiates an action against someone who objects to said action. In order to resolve the success or failure of the action both parties roll a dice (possibly add a modifier) and compare results. Opposed rolls are a bit of a contentious subject in the role-playing community and the makers of D&D have decided to eliminate them where possible. While, I do not support the extent to which D&D has gone to eliminate the opposed roll, I do believe they slow down combat quite a bit and create some very unnecessarily frustrating situations, as such I support freely switching to the D&D solution of Armor Class. The Depths version of Armor Class be to say the initiator has to meet or beat their opponent's Reflex + 4. There are two reasons that 4 makes sense as the replacement value for a 1d6 roll. First, the average roll of 1d6 is 3.5, giving us a value of 3 or 4 to choose between. Second is that if the defenders reflex were precisely equal to the offensive players attack success stat, the chance of success is 50%, (see my explanation of setting difficulty classes in my understanding dice article).

**Armor Abilities:** One advantage to using armor classes is that we can make armor that actually makes a bit of sense. Armor in traditional Depths reduces damage, but that is nothing like real armor. Real armor reduces the chance to take damage by deflecting blows (plate mail or riot gear) or making only blows of a certain type/strength have any impression (chain and softer armor). With armor classes the plate situation is represented by just adding to the armor class (or even exchanging the stat with a property of the armor).